Were you very disciplined as a kid
and was there a set day or moment when you saw how important discipline was and
decided to do it?
Well,
as a kid,
I think I was,
for the most part,
a kid.
I was not extremely disciplined kid.
I was,
I was pretty stubborn when it came to certain things,
which may be some kind of in early immature form of discipline you have just
being hard headed.
But I think as I got older I saw the first thing I remember along these lines is
seeing a lack of discipline around me.
I didn't identify it as people having discipline.
I saw like a lack of discipline.
It's all weakness.
I saw drugs,
I saw alcohol,
I saw laziness
and I,
I started to get after it a little bit,
right.
A little bit,
a little tiny bit,
but there was no role models.
There was no internet,
there was no guidance.
I didn't have the sense to to go to the library and find Bob Hoffman's book,
how to be,
how happy,
healthy and strong like I didn't know to do.
I know what makes sense to do that.
And so we did some basic things,
you know what I mean?
Some pushups,
you know,
and,
and if the pushup workouts that I did when I was 13 years old are laughable.
Laughable.
I mean I think if I did,
you know,
a set of 50 pushups,
I was corn or you know,
boom,
I'm the man,
right?
You are the man 13 yeah.
And,
and we did some silly little like kind of Barbell dumbbell circuit training kind
of thing.
Now I always liked the military.
I recognize that as a some kind of a trade of discipline in there.
And I looked up to military veterans,
I knew one Marine Corps drill instructor
and if you know anything about Marine Corps drill instructors,
so now we're talking [inaudible] 85 86 87 there wasn't any wars going on,
but you know,
when you're a kid you're just like,
oh he's a Marine Corps drill instructor.
He fit the part.
He was the perfect Marine Corps boat.
Drone struck her,
which most Marine Corps drill instructors are pretty damn perfect Kitsap,
incredibly,
incredibly honed job.
That's very well choreographed and very and very structured in it's,
it's a very fine,
um,
real tight,
real tight.
It's a real tight situation if you're getting Marine Corps drill instructor.
And I knew one right when I was a kid and I just looked at,
he was like a God,
right?
This guy is a marine corps are,
and of course he had,
I think he had like a 68 Camaro.
So he had a muscle car.
So he was Josie Ope,
like does the man and so now,
so I got that going on and then,
then there was the hardcore bands that I started listening to and they seem to
have some kind of,
it was something there,
right?
I recognized something there.
I recognize something with black flag.
I recognize something with bank called slapshot.
I recognize something with the Cro mags.
And I saw there was something in there and I,
and I,
I,
it Wa I couldn't,
I can't,
I didn't know what it was,
but it was some kind of strength,
right?
Some kind of discipline was in there.
I didn't put it all together though and there was no sort of unified way to go
down this path.
It didn't,
I didn't find that.
I don't know if I found it,
if it,
what it,
what it looked like to me.
You know,
maybe you could say that that path was the boy scouts.
The boy scouts are a disciplined group of individuals that learn how to hike and
haunt.
And I mean,
so was that it?
I don't know.
I,
maybe I didn't identify that or I didn't have the right personality cause I was
kind of nonconformist right.
It's a little bit,
you know,
a little bit of a rebel.
So I didn't put it all together.
Um,
in add some little flashes of like being hardcore where some of the things I did
that would be like,
you know,
kind of getting after some really minor way,
some,
some minimalistic level of discipline.
But it wasn't until I started training in earnest to join the navy that I
started to what we could recognize now as getting after it a little bit.
You know,
it's,
and again,
it's nothing compared to what people do now,
what definitely not.
But you know,
now we're talking 1989 I was running through marshes and being covered in mud
and I was swimming in the ocean and I was doing pull ups and pushups and dips
and sit ups.
And again,
it's nothing compared to what I do now or even what everybody does now.
But I was doing what I could with what I knew at the time.
And I didn't really have any idea of what I,
or really what people in general were capable of.
Like,
I just didn't know.
I didn't know.
I never would have thought a good pullup workout is 500 to a thousand pullups.
I,
I wouldn't have thought that,
you know,
for me,
I did three sets and pull ups and I was going to the murder,
you know,
so I just,
I just didn't,
didn't know.
And
I guess,
I guess you could say I didn't even have,
I didn't know to even explore those,
those outer limits of what I was capable of,
you know,
which is a bummer.
Um,
no,
I'm sorry.
You got to remember,
I didn't even know one other person that did pull ups.
Like there's,
there wasn't like pull up bars around.
There wasn't,
you know,
I'm out in the woods somewhere in the woods in New England.
There's no pullups people.
People aren't like,
hey,
how many posts can do,
I'd never heard that question.
And I didn't know anybody that swam in the open ocean.
I didn't know anybody that did push up workouts.
Right?
I Dunno,
I was just in the sticks.
And so when I joined the military,
I was a blank slate,
really for all practical purposes.
And it was really easy.
They say,
you do this,
this is what you do and you get advanced.
This is what you do to be ready.
This is what you do.
And I realized very quickly that the harder you worked that the more disciplined
you were,
the easier your life was,
the easier your job was.
Easier Day was,
these are your physical activities would get.
And when I got to the teams
and really going through buds when you're going through buds and when I'd
finally met guys that we're going to buds and we started doing a hundred pull
ups and we started doing 150 pilots.
We started doing 200 poles to workout.
And then it was like,
Oh wow,
you can do a lot of stuff that was getting ready to go to buds.
And then you go to buds and I,
you know,
you realize that people,
it's not just this individual like,
um,
spiritual awakening.
I'm like,
no.
You just realize,
hey,
you can do a lot of pullups people can,
it's not that big of a deal.
And everybody knows you can find that on the,
you don't need to go to buds to figure that out.
You can figure that out.
Just I'm telling you right now,
you know what I mean?
And all you need is to have that knowledge.
But I continued to realize that being disciplined,
all these things,
waking up earlier and working hard and training hard and keeping your gear
squared away and studying the material that we were supposed to know,
I realized that that work,
that discipline made life easier and it made us freer,
made me freer,
and the more time I spent in the teams,
the more this came in bedded in my head,
and not only as an individual that I realize this,
but I realized this very quickly.
We're not very quickly,
but as soon as I started moving into leadership positions,
I realized that the more disciplined a squad was over,
the more disciplined to platoon one was the better that squatter of that platoon
was going to be.
And
that's kind of where the evolution,
the evolution of it.
Yeah,
man,
it's that whole
process that I'm finally,
I don't know if they finally buy it right now.
It's starting to become clear where the whole,
you know you're going to pay the price in at some point,
you're going to pay the price for your actions.
So if you're going to prepare,
like let's say I'm going to get in shape,
right?
You committing to working out every day,
that's you paying a price like dis did.
Having the discipline to do it,
you're going to pay the price.
Waking early is not comfortable working on hard every day.
It's not comfortable.
You're going to pay a little price rate there the next day or the,
you know,
in regards to the results of that workout,
you're not paying the price,
you're reaping kind of rewards.
Right.
Or you can not pay the price early with the workout and stuff,
but you still got,
that tab is still outstanding.
So when you,
yeah,
so when it comes results time there,
that's,
that's when you're going to pay your little price there,
your body,
your health,
whatever.
At some point you're going to have to pay a price.
Pay Now or pay later.
Yeah.
Mansell and pay now.
Pay Now you get way more benefit cause like no one remembers.
Well we do.
Some of us do.
We buy,
I don't remember,
and take pleasure in remembering the time I skipped that workout because I
wasn't feeling like doing it.
You know?
Like that doesn't provide a sense of pleasure in my life to think back on those
days,
you know,
it's not good.
And at the same time when I think of like the detriment of doing the workout
when I didn't feel like it,
that doesn't,
that's not a bad memory to me.
You know,
when I do think back of like an or think even now if like the result of being in
better shape than the,
you know,
the average person or we're going,
did you do so and not gassing or whatever,
bringing in all the groceries at one time,
let's face it.
That's something
that is a sense of pleasure that I have the freedom to be able to do that one I
want,
I want,
you know?
Yeah.
And you know,
what else is interesting about this,
and sometimes I hear this and you did this a couple of times tonight,
right?
People go,
well,
yeah,
but you're Jocko late.
Like,
as if I'm,
as if I'm not a normal person,
but I'm not.
But I'm saying like,
you know her,
I just kind of went through like the story [inaudible] it's paints a pretty
clear picture that I'm a pretty normal person.
Yeah.
Right.
It's pretty normal.
But I made decisions along the way that maybe weren't normal and that may be
open the doors to being a little bit,
not normal.
Yeah.
But there are choices that you can make.
So,
so I'll have this with my kids too,
or you know who else is?
Sometimes I'll have them,
I would have friends,
we'll say that would say,
you know,
well,
yeah,
you're,
that's you.
You know,
like I'd say,
no one of you,
if you want to win this fight,
for instance,
you want to win this fight,
man,
you gotta,
you gotta do this,
you got to get after this,
you've got 80 be well.
You know,
it's not that easy.
And,
and that's,
that's what you would do.
But you're,
you're,
you in.
That's,
you know,
it's almost like,
yeah,
it's,
unachievable doesn't apply to me.
And my kids will say that to me.
You know,
my kids.
And I think it's actually a pretty big detriment that they think that I,
not that that,
oh,
I do it,
but,
but that's because I'm me and I'm the note.
It's not true.
And so,
you know,
occasionally I have,
I hear people say that and I go,
man,
this isn't like,
I guess it's kind of like what we were talking about the other day with someone
saying,
Oh,
oh,
that's a good picture you took.
What kind of camera did you use?
Well,
it's kind of like that.
I'm like,
you know,
oh,
I wake up early.
It doesn't,
it's not just because I just give it that way or I work out a lot.
Oh,
did cause you're super motivated,
right?
Was gifted you and born motivated?
No,
actually I'm a person and I grew up,
you know,
person.
Yeah.
And so it,
but it makes it very clear that these are just choices you can make and you can
get after it.
Totally true.
And I would say that it does,
when I say one,
anytime I would say consciously in meaningfully say,
well that's you is if I would be talking about a way of achieving like the same
thing.
Like you would do it this way.
I would try to do it this way kind of thing.
If I was confidence that I could get the results,
you know,
like whatever that is.
But um,
when did I say it to do about your sleeping,
your you,
you can do the four hour sleep.
So more so than you can do the four hours sleep and still function.
I meant you're into the four hours,
five hours sleep thing.
Yeah.
Which is cool.
But,
and I realize there are some genetic points in there,
I believe,
right?
Yeah.
I believe that there are some genetic points in there.
I believe there are some genetic points in,
in everything.
Right.
And I've told you this,
I have one of my daughters who is most similar to me,
both physically and mentally sleeps about the same as I do,
if not less.
One of my other daughters who is most physically and mentally,
well,
physically more like my wife.
She sleeps a lot.
Yeah.
And so there is a gin and my wife sleeps more than I do.
And so there is a genetic component to it,
I believe in.
I've read articles and people send me you Twitter articles all the time.
Oh,
you're one of these,
you know,
fast sleepers,
the 2% of the population,
all this stuff.
And I'm just saying,
okay,
yeah,
that's great.
But then people say,
oh well you just work out every day because you're super motivated or you just
trained Jujitsu all the time because you're just super motivated.
And it's like,
oh,
okay.
Well,
you know what?
Great.
Great,
great.
Yeah,
yeah.
I think you're absolutely correct.
And even with the sleeping thing that is like,
because ultimately yet,
if you don't have to sleep as much as the next person,
sure.
That's an advantage just because you have more time and that's it.
It's not like,
you know,
someone would would be like,
hey,
other than that,
to be like,
hey,
it's cooler or it's somehow more beneficial for me to sleep five hours rather
than my normal eight.
Like,
so I mean that,
put it this way,
if someone wants to choose to sleep four hours just because you do it,
that's kind of weird.
Yeah.
Now that being said,
what's awesome is there are a bunch of people on,
on the interwebs,
a bunch of bad ass troopers that have our,
are,
I retweet almost all of these,
cause people go,
hey,
you know,
I'm,
I lost 32 pounds.
Hey,
I lost 42 pounds.
I did my first squat today with 300 pounds.
So,
and,
and there's no difference in what they were doing before and what they're doing
now fundamentally in their,
in their genes or their,
or their physiology.
What they did is they decided to make these decisions.
They decided that they were going to go out,
they decided they're going to step up their game.
They're gonna decide you're gonna wake up early.
They decided they're going to clean up their diet.
They decided they were going to get after it.
And when they do that,
all of a sudden boom resolved.
And you know what?
You fast forward six months and people were,
will you just do that?
Cause you're super motivated and they'll be thinking,
you don't know.
I'm not.
I'm a person,
you know,
and I choose to get after it meal.
I recommend you all choose to get after it.
And I encourage that.
Any,
you know what?
It's not easy.
There's the nagging weakness that is pulling you down.
You know?
And you've got to shut that.